The quality of AI-generated images has rapidly increased, leading to concerns of authenticity and trustworthiness.

CIFAKE is a dataset that contains 60,000 synthetically-generated images and 60,000 real images (collected from CIFAR-10). Can computer vision techniques be used to detect when an image is real or has been generated by AI?

## Dataset details

The dataset contains two classes - REAL and FAKE. For REAL, we collected the images from Krizhevsky & Hinton's CIFAR-10 dataset For the FAKE images, we generated the equivalent of CIFAR-10 with Stable Diffusion version 1.4 There are 100,000 images for training (50k per class) and 20,000 for testing (10k per class)

## References

If you use this dataset, you must cite the following sources

Krizhevsky, A., & Hinton, G. (2009). Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images.

Bird, J.J., Lotfi, A. (2023). CIFAKE: Image Classification and Explainable Identification of AI-Generated Synthetic Images. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.14126.

Real images are from Krizhevsky & Hinton (2009), fake images are from Bird & Lotfi (2023). The Bird & Lotfi study is a preprint currently available on ArXiv and this description will be updated when the paper is published.

## License

This dataset is published under the same MIT license as CIFAR-10:

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
